>> Kyle Simpson: Value immutability
is a much more important question.
If we were trying to come up with
some sort of rating system here,
I'd say 99% of the problems that we face
come from a value being mutated
in a way that we didn't expect.
There's some global state object,
that has 1500 properties on it.
And somewhere some weird obscure
piece of code, change two or
three of those properties in a way that we
didn't expect, that's a value mutation.
It has absolutely nothing to do with
whether you use the const keyword or not.
So value immutability is the big problem.
99% of the problem comes from value
immutability or value mutability
rather and only 1% of the time at best
does it ever come from reassignment.
As a matter of fact, and
I'm being completely honest with you.
As a matter of fact based
upon my own sort of
introspection about my processes and code.
Never once, not a single time
has there ever been a case where one of
the bugs that I was trying to fix was,
oops, I reassigned a thing that
I wasn't planning to assign.
That's never once been
the problem that I've had, and
I'm not saying that that's never
been a problem for anybody.
I'm sure that const exists because
somebody somewhere reassigned a thing.
But in 25 years of programming experience
across a variety of languages,
I've written I can't
even count how many bugs,
I'm way better than all of you
at writing bugs, I'm good at it.
And of all the bugs that I've written,
never once has the problem been, oops,
I meant to leave x alone and instead
I should have written y or something,
that just isn't generally
the problem that I face.
And so I'm skeptical as to whether or
not that assignment problem is really so
widespread.
And I think we're not getting the proper
attention on the value mutability problem,
did you have a question?
>> Speaker 2: I was saying, the only
example I've ever seen is doing a for
loop, and
then accidentally reassigning i when
you use two, four loops or whatever
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
a great point, right?
So like yes you could definitely
accidentally have a variable
updated inside of a for loop and
then it throws the for loop off.
Some people do that on purpose though
like write for loops where they skip or
go back and
I have written code like that before, and
it's always been a pain in the neck
to manage and debug later.
It's always been a terrible idea, but
I'm glad you bring up this point because
that's an example where it theoretically
could be a problem and guess what?
Const doesn't solve that problem for us,
because you by definition have to update
that incrementor in your four loop.
So you can't declare it
with a const anyway.
So yes it's a problem, but
it's not a problem that the cost
key word is solving for us.
Let's take a look at some
examples of value mutability and
how we can address this
question of value mutability.
So here I'm creating an order
of details object and
I'm conditionally adding some stuff in.
So I need for
this thing to be able to mutated because
I need to run some other conditions, and
maybe update some properties or things,
like I am doing on line 7 through 9.
And then line 11, I pass that object and
because it's an object,
it's passed by reference.
I pass that object by reference
into this process order function.
Now, do any of us have any idea
what process order is doing?
Well we don't see it here, it's not local.
So the answer is, no.
We don't know what process order is doing.
Can we go and look at all the code
in processOrder and figure out?
Sure, but if there was something
in this block after processOrder,
that was relying upon orderDetails.
We now automatically would
have to have the suspicion,
if we're paying attention,
we have to have the suspicion,
did something change about
the orderDetails object?
And if that isn't our intuition to ask,
then it is almost certainly gonna be
the source of a bug at some point.
One of the things that we do as
functional programmers is try to
predict where the bugs are gonna be, and
avoid them before they occur by using
patterns where they can't happen.
And passing a value by reference,
where somebody could accidentally or
intentionally change a thing in a way that
we're not expecting is like putting up
a giant neon sign that says, please create
a bug here that I haven't planned for.
>> Kyle Simpson: And this is why
functional programmers take this so
seriously.
This is why immutability is one
of the most critical topics and
I think often under covered topics
in all the functional programming.
Because values get passed everywhere,
we pass arrays and objects and
functions all over the place.
And we should be asking ourselves
every time we pass it, how do I know
that that isn't gonna change in a way
that is gonna create a bug in my program.
When I pass the number 42,
or the string hello world,
I'm not worried cuz I know
the language already protects me, but
when I pass an object in array,
I don't have that same level of guarantee.
So even without going and
looking at the processOrder function
I'm gonna make an assertion
that the reader of this code could benefit
from some sort of process or convention.
That would allow them
to know they can trust
the orderDetails is not gonna get changed.